Midterm 11/18
1810~2030

MLE
使用data與假設的model來找出最有可能的參數


####example
This cannot be solved in closed form. An iterative numerical method of solving the equation must be used. Instead of this, I will show you a brute-force approach in the coming example. Example: Kew rainfall (adapted from the Jones, Maillardet, and Robinson 2009 book)
The rainfall at Kew Gardens in London has been systematically measured since 1697 to 1999. First, take a look at the frequency distribution of the total July rainfall in millimeters

找到適當的alpha,lambda，讓gamma分配最接近給訂的資料


```r

mle=nlminb(c(1, 1), gammaloglik, lower=c(1e-5,1e-5))
```

###nlminb(start,objective)
start: 初始值
objective: function to be minimized
lower:最小值



The maximum likelihood method provides a decent fit to the data. An alternative approach is to solve the equation below in R using any root-finding technique (e.g., the Newton method in lecture 2). How do we do it?
另外一個找MLE的方式用一階微分等於零來找極值
\\(
\large nlog(\hat{\alpha}_{MLE})- n log(\bar{x}) + \Sigma log(x) -n \frac{\Gamma' \hat{\alpha_{MLE}}}{\Gamma \hat{\alpha_{MLE}}}=0
\\)


**DO NOT fit everything with the normal distribution**

##Simulation
###Ideas and experiments

####example
Suppose 7-11 announces a new set of Hello kitty magnets. The set has 101 unique magnets in total. You can either buy random magnets (some of which could be repetitive) from 7-11 at cost.r=5 per magnet, or buy non-repetitive magnets from the dealer at cost.n=25 per magnet. The stochastic total cost will be
`COST=cost.r*npurchased+cost.d*nmissed`
Your goal is to collect the whole set, and you want to know how much you will have to pay.

###Generating pseudo-random numbers
####congruential generators.

Given an initial number x0 ∈{0,1,...,m−1} and two numbers A and B, we define a sequence
of numbers xn and a sequence of un that is nearly identical to iid U(0, 1) random variates by
\\(
x_{n+1}=(Ax_n+B) mod m ,n=0,1... \\
u_n=x_n/m
\\)

The number x0 is called the seed. If you know the seed, m, A, and B, then you can reproduce the whole sequence exactly. This allows you to reproduce simulation experiments.
For example, if we take A=3, B=0, m=7, and x0=2, then
\\(
x_1=3X2(mod7)=6,u1=0.857 \\
x_2=3X6(mod7)=4,u1=0.571 \\
x_3=3X4(mod7)=5,u1=0.714 \\
x_4=3X5(mod7)=1,u1=0.143 \\
x_5=3X1(mod7)=3,u1=0.429 \\
x_6=3X3(mod7)=2,u1=0.286 \\
x_7=3X2(mod7)=6,u1=0.857 \\
\\)

Here x1=x7 and the cycle is too short. Clearly, the cycle length cannot be greater than m. An example of good congruential generator is m=232, A=1,664,525, and B=1,013,904,223.

####Simulating discrete random variables
Earlier we have simulated Poisson random variates using rpois( ). As a matter of fact, we do not have to rely on those built-in rxxx( ) in R because given simulated Uniform(0, 1) random numbers, we can simulate all the others using the inverse transformation method.

Let X be a discrete random variable with pdf f (x) = P(X x) a=nd cdf F(x) = P(X <= x). 
The inverse transformation says that, given U~Uniform(0, 1)

```r
 x=0
 while(F(x)<U){ x=x+1}
```



###問題
關於MLE 如何知道哪個是最好的分佈，怎麼去比較?
看不同分配的likelihood,最大的最好。

###page 11看不懂QQ
用unf去模擬抽樣分配機率
如果是連續的
我們可以將每一個機率想成一個輪盤
每個值(介於0~1)都會對應到該分配cdf的某個值(ex:抽出來是0.9,你就是去找F(x)=0.9的x)
離散的話 更簡單
就是找