#1007

Experiment: An observational process that leads to a number of possible outcimes, which cannot be predicted withh full certainty.
(實驗:一個觀察的過程，會有數種可能的結果，你無法明確的判斷出結果會是什麼。)


Sample space: All possible outcomes of an experiment, usually denoted by S or \\(\Omega\\)

The sample space falls into three categories.

* Finite: There are only a finite number of possible outcomes
* Infinite discrete: Sample spaces are countably infinite,e.g positive integers/
* Continuius:Sample space correspond to finite or infinite interval of real numbers.

Event: Any subset of S,denoted by E.

P(E) denotes the probability of the event E.

###Examples
####Toss two coins and look for at least one head.
Experiment:Toss two coins

S: {(H,T),(T,H),(T,T),(H,H)}

E: at least one head

####Inspect IC chips from a manufacturing process repeatedly.
Experiment:check IC chips until the first defective chip is found

S: {d,gd,ggd,gggd......}

E:{d,gd,ggd,......}


###Calculating probabilities

A **classical approach to probaility** for finite sample sapce:

\\(
\large P(E)= \frac{number\,of\,points\,in\,E}{numer\,of\,points\,in\,S}=\frac{n(E)}{n(S)}
\\)

This definition assumes that each individual otucome x has equally likely

\\(
\large x \in S \Rightarrow P(x)=\frac{1}{n(S)}
\\)

A **relative frequency approach to probability** on the other hand,interpets the probability as the relative frequency of the event over a long series of experiment. That is,repeat the exepriment over and over again, and then count how many times are event occurs. Define

\\(
N_n(E)
\\)= the number of times E occurs in n repetitions

where \\(
N_n(E) \in \{0,1,2...,n\}
\\)

Accordingly, we can define

\\(
P(E)= 
\\)

使用指定的機率來取樣

```
toss=sample (c("H", "T"), 50, replace=T, prob=c(0.6, 0.4))
```

\\(
\large P^n_k=\frac{n!}{(n-k)!}=n(n-1)...(n-k-1)
\\)

It can be calculated in R using `prod(n: n-k+1)`


####Example: A series of 10 jobs arrive at a computing center with 10 processors. Assume that each job is equally likely to go through any of the processors.
(a) What is the probability that all processors are occupied?


(b) What is the probability that at least one processor will receive two or more jobs?

1- Prob(all processors all occupied)

(c) How many processors will be needed if we want to be 90% confident that no processor will receive more than one job?

\\(
\frac{P^n_10}{n^10}
\\)


####Example:
If a box contains 75 good IC chips and 25 defective chips from which 12 chips are selected at random, find the probability that all selected chips are good.
Experiment: 
S: n(S)= \\(C^{100}_{12}\\)
E: n(E)= \\(C^{75}_{12}\\)


####Example:
 A computer system uses passwords of five characters, each being one of a-z or 0-9. The first character must be a letter. Assume passwords are NOT case sensitive.
Find the probabilities that (A) a password begins with a vowel (a, e, i, o, u); (B) ends with an odd number (1, 3, 5, 7, 9); and (C) begins with vowel or ends with an odd number.

####Example:
The Intel fiasco
In October 1994, the Pentium chip was found to produce an incorrect result when dividing two numbers, despite Intel claimed that “such an error would occur once in 9 billion divides” for a typical user. However, the chip was withdrawn eventually. Why did that happen?
Let E be the event that an error will occur
How about 2 billion divides?
```
> error=1/9000000000 > noerror=1-error
> noerror
> noerror^2000000000
```

###Bayes theorem and posterior probability
Bayes’ rule for two events

Consider two events A and B. From the multiplication law we know

\\(
P(A \cap B)=P(A)P(B|A)
\\)

\\(
P(B \cap A)=P(B)P(A|B)
\\)

We can rearrange the terms

\\(
\large P(A|B)=\frac{P(A)P(B|A)}{P(B)}
\\)